<h1>Actual detection techniques</h1><br>
<p>One can find the violations listed above by analyzing traffic features and
network traffic. The following  ID techniques are all based on analyzing
traffic features, however they do not implement directly the rules above but
instead use anomaly detection based on preknown specification, learned
knowledge or even a form of artificial intelligence.
In ref. [1] we find a proposed specification-based ID to detect attacks on
AODV(Ad hoc on-demand distance vector, meaning it establishes a route to
destination only on demand) routing. In this approach they use finite state
machines to specify correct AODV behavior and use distribute network monitors
to detect runtime violation of the AODV specification. Ref.[2] also proposes a
specification-based ID concerning routing attacks, but opposed to the previous
approach they use state machines to specify DSR(dynamic source routing similar
to an AODV but it uses source routing meaning it allows the sender to partially
or completely specify the route of the package) routing behavior instead of
AODV routing behavior. Besides that the protocol can specify the sequence
relation for some special kind of packets(e.g., routing messages).  This
sequence relations among general packets can also be learned automatically,
therefore attacks can be detected by comparing the runtime traffic with the
learned one.
Ref.[4] proposes a different traffic feature to be analysed. In two different
buffers, a long term receiver and a short term intrusion, where it records the
arrival time for each package under observation, it verifies them against the
mean and a standard deviation of the interarrival time between the two buffers
respectively. It is considered a anomalous arrival if the data in the two
buffers deviate a lot.</p>

