<h1>Deployment Strategies of ID Systems</h1><br>

<p>We will present a few different strategies of how to deploy ID systems. A
simple approach is to install an ID system for every single node in the network
which makes the ID only responsible for the security of the host. This approach
almost completely eliminates the communication overhead. This method makes
sense when the ID system is more secured and therefore more trustworthy than
the host node. Another approach will make the ID system monitor itâ€™s
neighbour nodes, knowing the fact that a node can also oversee the transmission
by neighboring nodes in the wireless world. We already know that a normal
sensor node is resource-constrained and most of the times easy to be
compromised, so it was proposed by [1] to use special monitoring nodes for ID
usage. In a cluster-based network most of the network traffic will go through a
cluster head,  Ref.[5] deploys ID systems only on this clusters heads in order
to save precious resources. But this method loses monitoring coverage this
happens because the cluster head has no way of knowing details inside the
network, which makes it particularly difficult to detect and/or respond to
attacks, such as jamming attacks, impersonating attacks. Ref.[6] tries to place
the detection modules at an optimal place, thus on all the nodes that belong to
the minimum cut-set. Here a cut-set is a set of sensor nodes such that all
paths from all cluster heads to the base station traverse this set of node.
This deployment is optimal if we assume that the intruder is to do harm, cause
failure of the base station by delivering malicious packets. All the methods
presented so far distribute the ID system among a few nodes and through
cooperation makes the ID as efficient as central-based system. Ref.[7] makes
use of such a central-based ID system but specifies that this system cannot
protect all sensor nodes in the same time due to resource limitations.
Therefore, the ID system only chooses the most important node to protect
continuously based on a game approach, which is formulated as two-player
attack-defense problem.</p>

